---
title: Last few weeks before Dare to Learn
date: 2019-09-05T14:49:06.260Z
description: >-
  Looking back on all the work and preparations that I've done and the ones that
  are still to come..
---
It’s two weeks to go. Actually, it’s less than that. In two weeks around this time we will have the first day of Dare to Lean behind us. I can’t wait to see our „baby“!

So much has happened since the time I started this spring. It was all somewhat busy until the summer, but it was mostly about contacting people via email and having meetings with our team. Then the summer came, and it was slow. There were no team meetings for like a month, but it felt way longer, probably because I had spent most of the time at home. It was frustrating. I’m a social animal, and I need people around. However, during the summer I managed to push GESA to add Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to our semi-final. I tried to do it before as well, but the organisers refused. Luckily, one of the judges is super influential and essential person throughout the whole Nordics EdTech, and he backed me up. It was super helpful, and suddenly all was possible. I was grateful and proud that I managed to push the idea through, but at the same time it made me feel little because I needed someone important to achieve that. 

Since then, the number of applications had visibly grown. Another thing I had to do was to postpone the deadline of the GESA application. The original deadline was at the end of July, but all Finland was on holiday, so we agreed with the organisers to push it to August 12th. After the deadline has passed, we had 20 applicants and then it was the judges’ turn to do some job. I gave them 3 weeks to provide scores for each startup based on the criteria created by MindCET. 

Meanwhile, I was in touch with 5 startups who were interested in having a booth at the event. Yeah, there are only 5 of them for some reason. I’ve been trying so hard to email people, to convince people in person but it seems that my convincing skills are not as excellent as I thought so. But in the end, 5 is better than none, and they will get all the attention they deserve. I also managed to push them all to pay for the booths so it is finally confirmed, and they “can’t” cancel. 

One day close to the end of August, I looked at the airtable that was collecting all the Scandinavian applicants, and there were 9 new startups listed. I had no idea how did that happened. I checked the GESA official website and saw that the application was still open and there was nothing mentioned about Scandinavian GESA deadline on August 12th. I emailed straight away to the person in charge, and a few hours later there was ‘Scandinavian GESA application deadline has passed’ written on their website. Despite that, I tried to fill in the application and there was no restriction for startups from Nordics and Baltics. Well, after that I gave all the responsibility regarding these startups to the GESA organisers, since it was not my fault that is happened since I communicated all clearly and on time. I hope they managed to give the startups a chance to take a part in the European semi-final.

After the judges had finished their marking on September 2nd, I combined all their scores and found out who were the Scandinavian GESA semi-finalists. There are some cool startups, and you can check the semi-finalists’ names here: http://www.daretolearn.fi/scandinaviangesawards.html. I had to contact all the 20 startups and let them know about their results. Ten of them ended up being happy, and 10 of them said, but that’s how life goes, only the best of the best get the chance to win. 

Past few days I’ve spent by creating GESA schedule, documents about pitching and about all other necessary information related to Dare to Learn and GESA. I also managed to get a speaker on the GESA stage who will talk about the EdTech Finland Association and ClanED GESA win in 2017 while the judges will be making their decisions. I had emailed the GESA organisers to send me this year’s logo and I discussed the timer needed for the pitching. Also, my colleague and I are trying to figure out how are we going to do the public voting for GESA and HHE (Hacking Higher Education) and what kind of software we are going to use. There are many things that still have to be done, but it’s all in progress. One last thing I have to do is to talk to our potential host who will take the participants throughout the event. 

I’ve been enjoying this so much, and I simply love this “job”. Although, I had spent so much time with it lately and my thesis is again not getting enough attention. It’s been almost a full-time job situation, and I’m somewhat glad it’s getting closer to the end. Also not being paid for something you are basically doing almost full-time it’s a bit exhausting and tricky. However, I’m very grateful of the opportunity and proud of the job I’ve done and proud of our team. I can’t wait to see the event and to successfully pull it all together. 

Wish me luck and have a great day!
