---
title: Role of the startup coordinator at Dare to Learn
date: 2019-07-01T07:00:00.000Z
description: The first two months of being involved with Dare to Learn 2019
---
What is Dare to Learn? It has many descriptions: the festival of rethinking, the event for exploring lifelong learning, the event that gathers together the biggest learning enthusiasts and experts... I could continue picking these big words for a while.

How did I get to know about Dare to Learn? Well, last year (2018) around June, I was very uncertain about my future and about how I'm going to achieve what I want to do. I was looking for opportunities, and that’s when I found out about the volunteer application for Dare to Learn. I applied straight away and became a “basic” volunteer at one of the stages. My main task was assisting the speakers with being on time and at the right place. Being still included in the Facebook group of Dare to Learn volunteers, I had a chance to see the application for coordinator roles at Dare to Learn 2019. I looked into it right away, and there it was, the role of the startups coordinator. I got all excited as always do and applied without hesitating. I remember that they asked if I would like to have a second option in case I wouldn't be suitable for the position of the startups coordinator. At first, I automatically put the International coordinator as my second option for the volunteering, but then I realised that I don't want to give them a choice to vote me out. I wanted to be the startups coordinator, nothing else. That's why I decided to have no second option and went all in.

A missed call and a text message, that’s how it all started. I replied straight away and arranged the call with Antti (the head of partnerships) for later that day. The call went well, and my thesis topic was one of the reasons why I won over the position of the startups coordinator. 

The first meeting was at Dare to Learn’s office, and I was super nervous. I hate being late, so I usually end up being the first person in the room. It always feels awkward, and that's why I decided that maybe this time I shouldn’t be the first one in the room again. That’s why I walked around the block to spare some time before coming into the office. I finally got inside the building, and there were already four people in (yay, I wasn’t the first awkward one). After everyone arrived, we moved into a conference room where we had spent a while getting to know each other. After the official introductions in pairs were done, we continued with a casual talk about how I met a moose in the forest while babysitting two kids (it’s a great story, ask me about it if we ever meet in person). That was it; I survived the first partnerships meeting!

The second team meeting was at Korjaamo, Helsinki, the event’s future venue. I created a “great” impression straight from the beginning by not being able to find where was the meeting held. Luckily, Antti came to save me from the wild streets of Helsinki, and I got to fill in the volunteering agreement and take a tour around the venue. It looked great, and I believe we are going to make it even better looking in September!

The next step of my journey was to have a personal meeting with Antti to learn about my responsibilities and tasks. We met at one café in Helsinki and unexpectedly the CEO of Dare to Learn, Henna, was there too. Whenever someone says the word “CEO”, I get all scared of this important person and their attitudes (that's how it works in Czech). However, this CEO was just a normal, friendly human being with great enthusiasm and a sense of humour. After having a short talk with Henna, Antti showed me documents related to startups from the last year’s preparation process. In addition to that, we discussed whom I should meet to get fully settled down in the position. Then we joined Henna again, and we talked about more people that I should meet and talk to. We also discussed the Global EdTech Startups Awards (GESA) and the Scandinavian semi-final I will be responsible for. I felt so energised after the meeting, and right after I got home, I started to work on creating a list of startups suitable for this year's Dare to Learn themes. 

Since then I’ve had a chance to meet and e-meet (nowadays it’s pretty normal) many great people from the EdTech startup world. I’ve learnt a lot about how startups work and what kind of steps are there in the startup’s “evolution”. I’ve searched and read through hundreds of websites, Twitter profiles, and Facebook groups. I had a meeting with a board member of EdTech Finland Association, and I wrote a first-ever blog post that was published under my name, check it here: http://www.daretolearn.fi/blog/want-to-reach-the-world-of-learning-startup-booths-for-sale-now.

However, nothing is just a happy story without any difficulties. I’m supposed to have a summer holiday right now like the rest of the team, but I’m stressed about getting startups to apply for the GESA, and getting them to get booths from us at the event. In general, I feel like I’m not managing it all as well as I thought so. I know it will eventually get better, and I will deal with it somehow, but I guess that’s just the way I function.

Learn from me and don’t be such a perfectionist "freak", it will make your life easier. Good luck to you all and bear with me!
