---
title: Ekapeli & Autism research preparation - the decisions and struggles
date: 2019-06-26T08:54:24.698Z
description: Description of preparation for the data collection part of my master's thesis
---
If you had a chance to read my previous post about “How I became interested in EdTech”, you know what I’m going to talk about. For those who have no idea, I would recommend you to check the previous post 😊

Firstly, I would like to explain what Ekapeli is. It is a Finnish version of gamified reading intervention focused on learning letter sounds correspondences (grapheme-phoneme), which are the building blocks of reading skill. The English version of the game is called GraphoLearn, although you might find a game called GraphoGame as well. Initially, the idea was developed in Jyväskylä, Finland by the University of Jyväskylä (JYU), Agora Center and Niilo Mäki Institute. To my understanding, the rights to the game were bought by now called Grapho Group, and now there is one academic and one privatised version of the game with separate developments. I’ve been working with the academic version and hence cooperating with personnel from JYU and Niilo Mäki Institute, who have been more than amazing and helpful with all my issues and requests. 

In this post, I would like to talk about the research preparation that had to be done before starting my data collection in February and March 2019. It required lots of learning about new technology and combining several types of data collections.

There were only a few things I was sure of when I started with my research preparation. I knew I would work with Ekapeli, and I would test the software somehow with children with autism. At the beginning I had no idea how I‘m going to do this; it was all one big unknown in my head. Only one thing was clear to me; I knew I wanted to see whether Ekapeli is a suitable intervention for children with autism or not.

One of the first meetings was with Ulla Richardson, the person responsible for the technical development of the game. We discussed different versions of the game, log data and available assessments embedded within the different versions. Based on our discussion, I chose to work with Ekapeli Maahanmuuttaja (a version for immigrants) and that simply because it was the only simplistic version (to assure that there won’t be too many elements that would disturb the child on task) that had the letter assessment embedded within itself. That meant that I wouldn't need to do any extra manual letter assessment with the kids during the data collection. 

After I chose the specific version of Ekapeli, I had a few meetings with my supervisor, Markku Leskinen. We discussed many options and possibilities on what could be done with such a new way of looking at Ekapeli. One of his many innovative suggestions was using eye-tracking software to discover how will the children react to the intervention and interface of the game. I was so excited since I had no idea that eye movement tracking could be even used for masters thesis research. My supervisor gave me a contact on Jarkko Hautala from Niilo Mäki Institute, and Jarkko gave me an introduction to the SMI eye-tracking software and hardware. From this point on, I had spent hours learning to work with the software and tried to discover all possible ways on how to use and analyse the eye movement tracking data.

Meanwhile, I was contacting all schools in the city I chose for the data collection. I was asking if they had any children with autism who are 6-8 years old. I contacted maybe 30 schools, and finally, I heard back from a few of them. Most of them referred to other schools in the city, but luckily, one school was interested in collaboration. It sounds like I‘m saying that the school was involved, but that is not how it works here in Finland. It was the teacher who decided to collaborate with me. She said that there are six children with childhood autism in her class, and all of them are six years old. I was so relieved when I received this email since I was becoming nervous about whether I will find enough participants for my research. I agreed on a first visit to the school to get familiar with the environment and most importantly, to meet the children I will work with. I've learnt from my previous experiences that gaining trust from children with autism is one of the essential things, especially if you want them to execute some tasks for you. But to be honest, do you remember when you were six years old? Would you be excited about doing some ridiculous stuff with some stranger, alone away from the teacher and your classmates? Exactly, you wouldn't enjoy it either. 

Another big part of the research was to create all consent forms and privacy notices that ensured the GDPR was correctly followed. Honestly, this took me at least two weeks; it was too complicated for a person who has never had to deal with such paperwork. I also had to apply for a research permit from the city where I was planning to collect the data. It was a stressful and lengthy process. The application itself wasn’t too complicated, but it took the office more than a month to even process my application. In the end, it was only one of the many complications I was about to face during my research (more about the struggles in the data collection post).

The last thing I had to think of before being able to start collecting my data was how to create a whole-some picture of the children and their experience with Ekapeli. I ended up combining seven different data collection methods - log data from Ekapeli, eye movement screen recording, video recording, child self-assessment, daily teacher assessment, parent questionnaire, and teacher questionnaire. Yeah, it sounds pretty huge for just a master’s thesis, but well, I’m a bit extreme when it comes to choosing how I will work on projects that matter to me. 

Well, that was the summary of the pre-data collection process of my master’s thesis and how much had to be done before actually starting the fieldwork. It was long and stressful; I have to say that. However, at the same time, it was worth it. I can say that even despite the number of complications, I’ve been enjoying my master’s thesis research a lot.

You can check more information about the Ekapeli/GraphoLear here: https://info.grapholearn.com/

Next post will be focused on my Dare to Learn volunteering experience. Have a great day, you all!
